[MUSIC PLAYING]
[TYPING]
[BOING]
[EXPLOSION]
SURMA: Workers are the
web's version of threads.
JavaScript is inherently
single-threaded, so
multi-threading works a little
bit differently than in most
other languages.
Even though web workers
have been around for ages
that even Internet
Explorer 10 supports them,
they are just now picking up
as a performance primitive.
You create a worker with
a new worker constructor
and [INAUDIBLE] file.
And that file is going to get
executed in a separate thread.
Your app and the
worker can communicate
using PostMessage to send
messages back and forth.
But keep in mind that you can't
access the DOM from a worker
and that you can only
send JSON-style objects.
The advantage is that
you can do really
expensive and long-running
tasks in the worker,
and it won't affect
the performance
and the responsiveness
of your web app.
So everything that is not
essential to manage a UI
should be considered to
be moved to a worker.
See?
The web even has threads.
Who would have thought?
See you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I just finished my
CommitLog series
where I built a PWA
using WordPress.
So if you click here, you can
watch the entire series start
to finish and see how I
built all these little,
nifty features.
And while you're at
it, you should all
subscribe because we put a new
"Supercharged" every Thursday.